What have you seen happening between men
and women right now?
Um, women I think don't need men as much
as they used to. And I think this is in
part because of this whole sexual
revolution and the pill and the feminism
and all these things which is has you
know tremendous upsides. I think that
women and men are having less sex.
They're getting married less. Men's
attitude towards women has become
a little bit more resentful in certain
pockets of the internet.
They perceive relationships with the
other sex to be
disposable more than ever before.
Men's view women
I would say both. And I think in part
that's because of dating apps. Just the
perception of choice. Okay. The feeling
that if you don't work out, there's
another thousand people on my phone that
I could give a shot to. I think the
equation of a relationship when we think
about the investment it takes for it to
work and what you get from it, people
now perceive the equation not to be
worth it.
Okay. I think there's a lot of great
stuff there. So, so you're like a fully
formed adult man, right?
I think so. I hope so.
Yeah. Like you're you're like you're
like a man.
You're not like a kid. You're not like a
like a dude in early stages of
development. You've like you've got a
career. You've got a relationship.
You're buying a house. It's like you
were an adult.
Yeah.
So, if I was an 18year-old.
And I came to you and let's say I'm your
nephew or something like that and I'm
like, Stephen, fully formed adult,
handsome man in relationship. I'm
struggling to date.
Yeah.
What should I do?
You want me to give you advice?
Um, I think you should work on yourself.
Okay.
Especially as an 18-year-old man,
because I think you need to, especially
at that age, create some advantages. is.
And so working on yourself could be
learning, reading, going to the gym,
building up the ability to provide for
someone else and to protect somebody
else. That's kind of really where I'd
start. And again, that's biased because
that's what I did at 18 years old. I
actually didn't date. I think I've been
on five dates my entire life.
Okay. So, let's say I do that.
Yeah.
And it doesn't work.
Okay. So, I'm like, "Hey, I'm on this
growth journey." And I'm sure you've
encountered this and there are going to
be people in the audience who are like,
"The reason they're watching this
podcast is because they're trying to do
that. They're still not getting dates,
right? It's still hard to find a
girlfriend.
Then what do you have to say to them?
I would assume that the reason it's not
working is because they're not in this
frame of mind to find love.
And when someone says when a dude says
I I'm trying to do everything right,
what is the most common response that
they get? Right. So like
try harder or like
Yeah. Right. If you kind of like look at
Twitter, what you'll find is people will
be like, "It's impossible to find a good
woman." And then like men will be and
let's say a dude says that or a woman
says that doesn't. It's on both sides.
It's impossible to find a good man. And
then people won't be like, "Yeah, it's
impossible to find a good man." Maybe
some people will be supportive. So
you'll have a woman who says it's
impossible to find a good man. You know,
they'll there are a lot of people who
are like, "Yeah, like like men are
trash." Fine. And then a lot of people
will be like, "You're not trying hard
enough. You're not going to the right
places." is that's that gets we as men
get that a lot more because there's a
societal bias that men don't need help.
Right? So if if if you look at like the
the comparison of scholarships, male
only scholarships versus female only
scholarships, there's about $4.9 billion
worth of scholarships given out in the
United States from private sources. Uh
female scholarships outside of athletics
are way higher than ma male
scholarships. So if you look at
athletics, the number is way higher for
men. But the really weird thing is that
like 60% of people who graduate from
college or in college somewhere in there
are women. So the the people who need
more gender-based support are men, but
we don't really do that. We're usually
like if a man has a problem, this is a
man's problem to solve. And when a man
goes out and says, "I'm having trouble
dating." But what people will say is men
will say, "Work harder. Try harder." You
know, people will like like and people
will really be nasty about it. They're
like, "Do you not know how to talk to
women? stop being a creep, things like
that. And then the other thing that
we're sort sort of starting to not
starting, we're really seeing is that
there is like this very very like deep
anger, entitlement. There's like this
incel movement. Um, you know, there's
this like alpha male, beta male kind of
thing. And I don't know if you kind of
get this, but there's like a deep sense
of like anger, right? There's like a in
men, and I think women feel it too. This
is why women are so terrified. This
whole thing about would you rather be in
a forest with a bear or a man? You did
you hear about this? So like people
would ask this question on Twitter to
women. It's like would you be rather be
in a forest with like a bear or a man?
And like women feel safer with a wild
bear than they do with a man. So I think
people are picking up on this like
existential and I don't know if that
makes sense to you, but there's like an
existential like cry coming from men
which can manifest as anger. I think
we're also seeing reflections of this
like in South Korea with like dropping
birth rates, right? Where like men are
getting really really angry. they feel
really entitled. And I think this is
where it's important to understand a
biological difference. And we'll get to
what I think is going on.
So a woman does not need a man in order
to pass her genes along, right? So I
mean like literally, I know it sounds
weird, but like if you're a woman, you
can just go to a sperm bank and you can
get pregnant.
Yeah.
You can just have a child without you
can also argue that it's easier for
women to find a man who is willing to
impregnate them than it is for a man to
find a woman willing to carry their
child. But I mean literally we live in a
society where women can just procreate
if they feel like it and men cannot. So
there's a fundamental power balance
there. I'm not saying it's right or
wrong. I'm just saying it is what it is.
So I think what we're starting to see is
actually like a mass extinction event.
We are seeing natural selection for a
group of men who have no options. Many
years ago, I was a loser. And the the
world that we lived in
necessitated my entry into third spaces.
I had trouble talking to girls, but I
was forced into college. When I got my
first job, it was serving ice cream. I
was forced to interact with girls. I was
active in a s summer camp where I met
girls, was forced to talk to girls. So,
I sucked at talking to girls, but the
world that I lived in was structured so
that I still had to talk to girls. I had
no option to retreat from interaction
and painful interaction with the
opposite sex. I think literally what
we're seeing because all this stuff
started to get really bad during CO. So,
what happened in CO was actually like a
natural selection event, but it wasn't a
natural selection event about life and
death. That's what people think natural
selection is. What happened during CO?
Sure, a lot of people died and that's
bad. But the postcoid world, some people
were able to adapt to it and some people
are not. We're seeing a spike in social
anxiety. Now I can work from home. Now I
have pornography. Now I have all this
stuff going on to where I'm not forced
to learn how to interact with women.
Does that kind of make sense?
Yeah.
So now you can live your whole life at
home. And I think what's starting to
happen is literally natural selection.
And the way that natural selection works
is people think it's like, oh, if I'm
natural, natural selection means I'm
weak and someone is strong. That's not
technically correct. Natural selection
is you were made a certain way, someone
else is made a different way and then
the environment changes.
Which one of these two is suited to?
It's not even adaptation because all the
adaptations have been made. And I think
the best example of this is like
literally Darwin's finches. So, you've
got like, you know, one finch that has
like a hard beak that can crack a nut.
You've got another finch that has a very
sharp beak that can get like a a a bug
out of like a cactus like that has these
very like tight tight flowers. And so,
if something happens and all the cacti
die out, the birds that rely on the
cacti bugs will start to die out too.
They don't know how to procreate in this
world anymore. And I think what we're
seeing with like all these alphas,
betas, incelss, what we're seeing in
South Korea is there is a whole
generation of men that is like we are
literally watching them die out in real
time because we've got 32 year olds,
35year-olds who do not have children, do
not know how they're going to ever have
children. And this is where like I know
this sounds bizarre, but so that's
actually happening. That's not bizarre.
That's birth rate in South Korea is like
7. So there's a bunch of men who will
never pass on their genes in the alpha
male, beta male, whatever. Like, you
know, in that kind of language, they
talk a lot about like procreation and
legacy and stuff like that. But I I
almost wonder is there a mechanism in a
human being that if your genes know
they're dying out, what would they
trigger in your mind?
Right? And I think what they would
trigger is exactly what we're seeing.
This like existential panic, angst, even
aggression, entitlement, because if
these men do not behave in this way,
they are literally going to die out. So
what we see in this postcoid world is
that people like maybe you or me who
were like losers and didn't know how to
talk to chicks in high school, we were
forced into social interaction where we
basically like that's where we developed
uh in in order so that we could talk to
girls. But in this postcoid world, all
those spaces are gone. There's no
forcable interaction. So then there are
some people for whom it's natural to
talk to girls. And that's why like we
see this dichotomy where it's almost
like you know some people like just put
yourself out there, just work out, work
on yourself and things will work out.
And then there are a lot of other people
who are like that's not working. And I
imagine if you went back like 200 years,
went back to the Gapagos Islands and you
took Darwin's finches and you put them
on Twitter, you would see that what
exactly what we're seeing. Some people
are like, "Oh, like you have trouble
getting bugs, just crack a nut. Like
just get better at cracking nuts." But
they have something in their makeup,
something in their attachment style,
something in in their their tendency for
social anxiety, something in their
neuroticism, something in their
circumstances, something in their
support structure that allows them to
put forth effort and succeed. And then
there are these other people over here
who will go to therapy, who will work on
themselves professionally,
who will show up on dating apps and
because of the shape of their face which
cannot be fundamentally altered or some
other thing which they're not even aware
of, they grew up with a certain
attachment style that they're not aware
of. they grew up with on the spectrum
and their capacity to make eye contact
and emotional connections is very
difficult. So there's this whole crop of
people who I think are trying really
hard. I don't think they're losers. I
don't think they're like pathetic or
anything like that. I think there's
something about the architecture of how
these people are built so that standard
advice does not apply to them. And what
I feel when I sit with these people is
like someone who is dying out. Like
that's what it feels like to sit with
this this person's life. They're not
living a life. They're in a slow
protracted process of dying. And when
you are in a slow protracted process of
dying, pornography shows up. And then
you've got this weird thing that goes on
where you get this spurt of dopamine,
this existential dread of like I am not
getting to participate in life. There
are all these people out there that are
participating. They tell me, "Oh, you
should do this, but it doesn't work."
And it's just imagine how terrifying it
is if someone gives you advice
that's supposed to work and it doesn't
work for you. How are you, right?
Because that's the answer. It's like
some people have cancer, we give them
cancer treatment, they get better. But
if some people have cancer and
everyone's like, "Hey, do this
chemotherapy." And it doesn't work, then
how screwed are you? You're very
screwed. So this is, I think, what we're
seeing. This deep existential loss, this
desire for connection is somehow like
intersecting with pornography. Because I
think pornography addiction has a
spiritual component, too. And if you
talk to people who are addicted to
pornography, they can feel it. They feel
like spiritually like empty. They're
like, I'm not doing anything in with my
life. So, one of the two variables that
correlates with pornography addiction,
the two strongest variables that
correlate with pornography addiction,
one of them is a sense of
meaninglessness in life. And there's a
weird spiritual angle that I talked
about, but the other really simple thing
is, you know, if you want to stop
watching porn, you need to have a reason
to stop watching porn. And the problem
with porn is that you can be kind of
like living your life and then in the in
between hours when you're like back from
work and before you go on a date or
maybe you're swiping on Tinder and no
one's really answering or whatever, like
you just have these hours in the day
where there's nothing going on, you're
not living for anything, so you might as
well jerk off.
I mean, there's there's a lot that I'm
thinking about. The first is if we go
back up to your point about this being a
bit bit of an extinction event, it poses
a question about like what do you do
about that? Mh.
Um you said also people are trying to
implement the advice but it's not
working.
Now does that mean that that's a
question of like motivation, discipline?
Is it um is it bad advice? What do we do
there? And um the third I guess question
that comes to mind is does society have
a responsibility to intervene in some
way to correct this?
So I I think does society have a
responsibility? I don't think that is a
real thing. So I have never seen society
take a responsibility. I don't think
society can take a responsibility.
Right? So if like like how do I get
society like who do I talk to?
But but if you think about other people
that are in marginalized groups, society
intervenes to make the world
the governments and the way that we make
our laws and the way that we give out
money and grants and the way that we
shape our communities.
Yeah. So I I understand the question but
I I think like this and this is just the
way that I think. So if I ask you what
is society you say the government and
then who is the government? What is the
government? It's people.
Yeah. So I think this comes down to
forget about societal responsibility and
I think this is one of the problems not
to say that it is the problem but this
is just the way that I think there was a
case I don't remember her name of a
woman who's being sexually assaulted in
public like on a street at nighttime and
there were a bunch of neighbors who were
like aware that the sexual assault was
happening and no one called for help
and the reason no one called for help is
because everyone assumed that somebody
else would call for help. You know whose
problem is it? Oh, society should fix
this. And the moment that we say society
should fix fix this, we stop taking
individual responsibility. And the
moment that we stop taking individual
responsibility, like unless someone
shows up and runs for office and says my
goal is to do this, which by the way is
happening in like South Korea. So like
conservatives that are very like there's
this huge tension in South Korea right
now between men and women and this 4B
movement where women are like we're not
going to have kids anymore and then
there's like this conservative kind of
like pro-masculine kind of movement that
is moving into government and says like
this needs to change. We see governments
responding to this mating crisis. Um
right so I think like China is now
paying people to have children. So
there's all kinds of like moves that are
happening. So is it society's
responsibility? Like I don't know. So, I
think if society doesn't do anything,
what's going to happen will be really
simple. And that's what I mean by we're
we're witnessing a mass extinction
event. We have a group of young men who
are somewhere between 15 to 50 who will
just never procreate and then they will
literally die out, right? Their genes
will not be passed on. And for the
people who do procreate, they will have
been adapted to the postcoid world.
Yeah.
Right. So, they know how to form. They
they succeed on Tinder. Whereas like if
you go and you look at like if you go to
like um some kind of senior event and
you look at all the people who have
grandkids, half the men there would not
have succeeded on Tinder.
Yeah.
Right. And this is something that really
like shocks people when I kind of tell
them this, but if you want to see like
who's succeeding, it's not the the dudes
on Tinder who are getting laid 15 times.
go to like a I mean this is sometimes a
little creepy but like if you go to a
playground you're going to see like a
lot of like averagel looking men with
like average looking dad bods which with
average median incomes who are like
having kids and that's what's really
happening. But even those men are
adapted in some way, right? Because
they're not exceptionally attractive,
they're not exceptionally rich, but they
have something going on in their
psychological makeup which allows them
to form bonds and procreate.
You just said that a huge amount of men
between the age of 15 and 50 will not
pass on their genes. They will
effectively die out of the gene mating
pool. So people will hear that and many
people will go well that's evolution.
Yeah.
And but I want to understand if there's
a counterpoint to that. Should should
society intervene? Should why is you
know in the short term we're going to
have a lot of men who are disillusioned
that become incel find themselves in
pockets of the internet are resentful
all those kinds of things. But should
society intervene to course correct
that? Should we put systems in place to
make sure that those men meet partners?
I
I'm going to I'm going to answer that
question with a question.
Okay.
If let's say a huge swath of people are
dying out from cancer, Yeah.
should we intervene with that?
Yes.
If a huge swath of people are dying out
from like a virus, should we
Yes.
If a a huge swath of people are dying
out from genocide, should we intervene
with that?
Yes. So I think there are two important
things. One is
slightly different though, isn't it?
Because it's just it's whether you
So one is about death.
Yeah.
Right. So one is like if if a human
being is dying,
we should step in. But natural selection
isn't necessarily about death. This is
what's really tricky about it. This is
why I think it gets hard. Natural
selection is about passing on your
genes.
Yeah.
Right. It's about creating viable
offspring. And this is where if someone,
you know, and I think we also say yes,
like if there's, you know, a couple that
wants to have a child and that child has
cystic fibrosis, should we help that
couple? Should we help a couple
procreate? We also say yes.
Yeah.
So that's why we have IVF and things
like that. So I think the the tricky
thing about the reason that this is
different is because that's a couple. If
if a woman is unable to have kids, even
if we say if a man is unable to have
kids, should we medically intervene so
that it they're capable of having kids?
Yes. Right. So if we're talking about a
couple, if we're talking about a human
being and there's a medical problem or
if we're talking about protecting people
from death, the answer is yes. This is a
new question
which is do people have the right and I
don't know if right is and maybe that's
the right word to reproduce and this is
what's so challenging about it is like
the answer is basically no because for
men that requires the consent of someone
else and my right to reproduce never
trumps someone's right to not want to
reproduce with me. I think we sort of
accept that right that that's correct.
Now, this is where the fundamental
biological difference comes in because a
woman doesn't need a man to reproduce. I
can go to a sperm bank.
And once again, you can argue that you
can get laid if you want to, but I that
hasn't been my experience. I think women
struggle with loneliness and finding
sexual partners and stuff quite a bit as
well. There's some really bad
perceptions on the internet. So, I think
this is like a new problem for society,
which is why it hasn't been solved.
Now, that's why the the the track that I
take, I don't know what the societal
answer is. I'm not a sociologist.
So what I have found thankfully we don't
need to sol I don't think we need to
solve that problem. Does it need to be
solved? Sure. Should someone solve it? I
think so. But I think what what what I
found works really well is that usually
the problem that these men are failing
to adapt to I is can be fixed. But the
problem is that the solutions that work
for the people who are successful
will not work for the people who are
unsuccessful. These are apples and
oranges, right? So like and this is the
big mistake is that when when I say okay
I am happily married with two kids but
the thing that I did won't work for
these people that's been my clinical
experience my advice does not work for
them your advice won't work for them
what we need is a different system that
addresses their fundamental problems
right cuz I had what it takes internally
I was loved as a child like f like this
is how deep it runs. So, I knew how to
give love and receive love. A third of
the men that I meet do not know how to
give love and do not know how to receive
love. Has nothing to do with their
Tinder profiles, that's why they're
And when people can say, "Go to
the gym, make more money." But if you do
not know how to fundamentally give or
receive love, then like that's a huge
problem.
Is that where you start when you're
trying to solve this on an individual
basis?
Uh, yeah. So I mean I start giving and
receiving love is not where I start
because that's like so foreign to them
that they don't know how to do that.
Okay?
Right? So I think there are a couple of
things. Uh the first place that I start
with most men is in understanding their
emotions.
So we have all kinds of patterns that we
engage in that are driven by different
parts of us that we have no insight
into. And usually this is like where the
money is. So I I was I had had a great
conversation yesterday with a buddy of
mine and you know he he gave me this
fantastic example which I've seen so
many times. So you know there's a a lot
of women will talk about men who are
afraid of commitment.
Yeah.
You know so it's like oh like I'm dating
this person he's great but he's afraid
of commitment. He's afraid of
commitment. And then and then then it
kind of becomes like oh like the dude is
like he like needs to step up and he
needs to like be a man and needs to like
learn how to commit. So we sort of put
put the onus on the man. You're afraid
of commitment. You need to fix that.
It's a really funny thing is if you look
at like women that I've worked with,
they sort of fall into this pattern
where they date men who are afraid of
commitment and that's why they're
looking for commitment because they
haven't found it yet, right? And so the
really funny thing is sometimes women
will select for a man who is afraid of
commitment because deep down they are
afraid of commitment.
So true. So I I'm going to find someone
who I know is afraid of commitment and
therefore I can blame them for never
committing. And this is how I know this
because sometimes the dude will come
into my office and he will work on his
fear of commitment and he will conquer
it. And the moment that he conquers his
fear on commitment, the woman will
retreat. They'll get terrified. They'll
start to find all kinds of problems. And
it's not just like men and it's not just
women are guilty of this. So there are
all kinds of patterns that people will
engage in that they have no insight
into. First of all, understand your
emotions. Then you will understand your
behaviors. Oh, like why do I keep on pe
selecting people who are afraid of
commitment? Because I'm afraid of
commitment. And if I can find somebody
else who's afraid of commitment, I can
blame them from it. And I never have to
deal with my lattering up my fear of
commitment. So there's a lot of stuff
that comes with emotions. So, awareness
of emotions, awareness of your your
patterns, the ability to regulate them,
and I'd say that kind of ties it up.
If you love the D CEO brand and you
watch this channel, please do me a huge
favor. Become part of the 15% of the
viewers on this channel that have hit
the subscribe button. It helps us
tremendously and the bigger the channel
gets, the bigger the guests.